---
layout: page
title: Layer 2
---

## Threats & Controls

Before a [policy](02-definitions.html#policy) is ready to be fully implemented, it must contain a set of [threat](02-definitions.html#threat)-informed [control](02-definitions.html#control) objectives which are supported by clear [assessment](02-definitions.html#assessment) requirements.

As the previous section alluded, *Threats* and *Controls* often draw from previous work and form the core elements of a [risk](02-definitions.html#risk)-based organizational [policy](02-definitions.html#policy). Ambiguity persists, however, due to the overloading of this terminology in the information technology ecosystem. The following definitions are selected from the different ways these terms are used, and within the context of the model they each have a single definition.

**Threats** are specifically-scoped opportunities for a negative impact to the [organization](02-definitions.html#organization). Ideally, a [threat](02-definitions.html#threat) will draw from known vectors and be mapped to a specific factor such as a capability, location, or action, so that it is clear precisely when or where the [threat](02-definitions.html#threat) can be expected to manifest. They may be associated with a specific scenario, business unit, or technology, making them ideal for helping inform organizational policies. In this way, controls can be marked for exclusion if the corresponding factor is no longer present.

**Controls** are specifically-scoped safeguards or countermeasures containing a clear objective. It will ideally build upon established [guidance](02-definitions.html#guidance), and contain *[assessment](02-definitions.html#assessment) requirements* that can be directly implemented by evaluators. These are typically developed by an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization) for its internal use, or for general purpose by industry groups, government agencies, or international standards bodies. Examples include [CIS Benchmarks](https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks-overview), [FINOS Common Cloud Controls](https://github.com/finos/common-cloud-controls/blob/main/README.md), and the [Open Source Project Security (OSPS) Baseline](https://baseline.openssf.org/).

{% include themed-image.html
  light="/assets/model-images/figure-5.1-light.png"
  dark="/assets/model-images/figure-5.1-dark.png"
  caption="Figure 5.1: A [Control Catalog](02-definitions.html#control-catalog) References Threats and [Guidance](02-definitions.html#guidance)"
  width="45%"
%}

While controls are traditionally delivered in topical batches as *[control](02-definitions.html#control) catalogs*, there is an emerging trend toward composability, which defines reusable agnostic controls for information systems. These are almost like [guidance](02-definitions.html#guidance) in their generic prose, but with [assessment](02-definitions.html#assessment) requirements that are detailed enough to serve as Layer 2 assets. An example of this can be seen in the [FINOS Common Cloud Controls](https://ccc.finos.org) “Core Catalog,” which contains both [threat](02-definitions.html#threat) and [control](02-definitions.html#control) definitions that are later imported into technology-specific catalogs.

The recommended process to create a [control catalog](02-definitions.html#control-catalog) for an information system is to first assess the technology's capabilities, then identify threats to those capabilities, and finally develop a set of controls to mitigate those threats. However, it is not uncommon for an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization) to write controls first based on the author’s experience, and then later backfill threats to solidify a justification or rationale for those controls.

---

## Continue Reading

- **< Previous Page**: [Layer 1](./05.1-Layer-1)
- **> Next Page**: [Layer 3](./05.3-Layer-3)

---
