---
layout: page
title: Layer 3
---

## Risk & Policy

The respective authority of any [control](02-definitions.html#control) or [guidance](02-definitions.html#guidance) is strictly dependent on when and how it is referenced by an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization). Mature [GRC](02-definitions.html#grc) programs will ensure that controls are appropriately selected based on the most relevant details.

**[Risk](02-definitions.html#risk)** is the potential for loss or damage when a [threat](02-definitions.html#threat) is actualized. It represents the crossroads between the impact of an event and the likelihood of it happening. It is often very high level, and requires a firm understanding of an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization)’s landscape: everything from technical to geopolitical details. It is typically informed by a [threat](02-definitions.html#threat) [assessment](02-definitions.html#assessment), calculated as the situational likelihood of a negative outcome, then modified by the resulting impact. *[Risk](02-definitions.html#risk) appetite* is the level of [risk](02-definitions.html#risk) an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization) is willing to accept in pursuit of its objectives.

[Risk](02-definitions.html#risk) appetite should be clearly documented in a *[risk catalog](02-definitions.html#risk-catalog)*, which is used to determine when and how rules are created for the [organization](02-definitions.html#organization). A **[Policy](02-definitions.html#policy)** is a clearly-scoped set of rules based on an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization)’s [risk](02-definitions.html#risk) appetite. It provides [governance](02-definitions.html#governance) rules that — while based on best practices and industry standards — are tailored to an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization). Because policies inevitably introduce some level of *[risk acceptance](02-definitions.html#risk-acceptance)*, they cannot be properly developed without consideration for [organization](02-definitions.html#organization)-specific [risk](02-definitions.html#risk) appetite.

{% include themed-image.html
  light="/assets/model-images/figure-5.2-light.png"
  dark="/assets/model-images/figure-5.2-dark.png"
  caption="Figure 5.2: A [Policy](02-definitions.html#policy) References Risks and Controls"
  width="45%"
%}

A complete *[policy](02-definitions.html#policy) document* will be time-bound, contain references to [threat](02-definitions.html#threat)-informed controls with [assessment](02-definitions.html#assessment) requirements, and include a clear plan for rolling out the [policy](02-definitions.html#policy) to impacted parties.

[Policy](02-definitions.html#policy) documents may be referenced by other [policy](02-definitions.html#policy) documents, creating a functional inheritance model. These documents can be distributed to relevant parties as design requirements and used as a starting point for Layer 5 assessments. They are significantly more likely to succeed in practice when risks are included with the distribution of a [policy](02-definitions.html#policy), where they are mapped to specific threats and subsequent controls.

If created during planning, a [policy](02-definitions.html#policy) document can serve as a functional design requirement to ensure that security is baked into the sensitive activity instead of becoming an obstacle later.

---

## Continue Reading

- **< Previous Page**: [Layer 2](./05.2-Layer-2)
- **> Next Page**: [Layer 4: Sensitive Activities](./06-sensitive-activities)

---
