---
layout: page
title: Layer 6
---

# Preventive and Remediative Enforcement

When an [evaluation](02-definitions.html#evaluation) logs a non-[compliance](02-definitions.html#compliance) [finding](02-definitions.html#finding), the next step is to respond with corrective action. This is often done within the same process that identified the [finding](02-definitions.html#finding), which will then alert, interrupt, or remediate. The latter two are considered *[enforcement](02-definitions.html#enforcement)* actions, while ongoing activities such as alerting are part of *[continuous monitoring](02-definitions.html#continuous-monitoring)*.

**[Preventive Enforcement](02-definitions.html#preventive-enforcement)** involves any action that interrupts a process to prevent noncompliance. This is primarily in response to malformed intent, such as a bad configuration, but it may also include more complex behavioral [evaluation](02-definitions.html#evaluation) processes that are executed prior to the deployment of the sensitive activity. 

In software development lifecycles, this may take the form of a deployment gate — equivalent to a perimeter gate on a physical property which controls admission. This ensures that all actions that are intentionally taken are vetted according to [policy](02-definitions.html#policy).

**[Remediative Enforcement](02-definitions.html#remediative-enforcement)** describes corrective action in response to noncompliance in a deployed activity. This may include isolating, replacing, retraining, or re-deploying the noncompliant resource with a compliant configuration. This typically requires some manner of observability to detect target state, and communication with the latest applicable policies to ensure that any changes to the environment — or [policy](02-definitions.html#policy) — result in immediate remediation.

Due to the volatile nature of many remediation activities, and the potential for end-user confusion, proper logging and alerting should always be put in place alongside remediation tools.

Extending the point made in Figure 7.1, [enforcement](02-definitions.html#enforcement) activities may find heightened success when properly mapped to [evaluation](02-definitions.html#evaluation) results. This allows every person or system involved in the change to understand the complete justification, instead of the [enforcement](02-definitions.html#enforcement) being applied arbitrarily.

- **< Previous Page**: [Layer 5](./07.1-Layer-5)
- **> Next Page**: [Layer 7](./07.3-Layer-7)
