---
layout: page
title: Layer 7
---

## Audit & Continuous Monitoring

Perhaps the most famous and most feared part of [compliance](02-definitions.html#compliance) is the process of demonstrating it to those who weren’t involved with the sensitive activity.

An **[Audit](02-definitions.html#audit)** is a formal, opinionated review of an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization)’s policies and posture. Because an [audit](02-definitions.html#audit) is an approximation of [compliance](02-definitions.html#compliance) posture at a point in time, its outcome is a firm assertion based on observations of available evidence or gathered facts. Audits may have a variety of scopes, and may involve forming opinions on the [guidance](02-definitions.html#guidance) an [organization](02-definitions.html#organization) follows, the controls it writes, the policies it implements, its [evaluation](02-definitions.html#evaluation) methods, and its [enforcement](02-definitions.html#enforcement) status. The [opinion](02-definitions.html#opinion) is typically informed by a combination of geopolitical regulatory requirements and known best practices for the industry and resources involved.

Audits are typically conducted in batches, and look for point-in-time evidence collected during an [evaluation](02-definitions.html#evaluation) activity. Traditionally, audits have favored manual intent evaluations due to their simplicity and predictability, but cybersecurity audits are increasingly integrating automated tools for both intent and behavioral [evaluation](02-definitions.html#evaluation).

**[Continuous Monitoring](02-definitions.html#continuous-monitoring)** is a multi-system process designed to collect [evaluation](02-definitions.html#evaluation) and telemetry data in an ongoing process to better detect malicious action, enable remediation activities, and observe trends over time. This is also known as “CCM,” continuous [compliance](02-definitions.html#compliance) monitoring.

Mature CCM operations establish a constant, ongoing, [policy](02-definitions.html#policy)-driven process that harnesses multiple systems to ensure maximum visibility of all deployed assets at all times. A physical equivalent might be constant security patrols, live video surveillance, and active perimeter guards.

- **< Previous Page**: [Layer 6](./07.2-Layer-6)
- **> Next Page**: [The Need for Machine-Optimized Documentation Standards](./08-applying)
